HTTP Requests and Responses
Answer the following questions about the HTTP request and response process.


What type of architecture does the HTTP request and response process occur in?


What are the different parts of an HTTP request?


Which part of an HTTP request is optional?


What are the three parts of an HTTP response?


Which number class of status codes represents errors?


What are the two most common request methods that a security professional will encounter?


Which type of HTTP request method is used for sending data?


Which part of an HTTP request contains the data being sent to the server?


In which part of an HTTP response does the browser receive the web code to generate and style a web page?



Using curl
Answer the following questions about curl:


What are the advantages of using curl over the browser?


Which curl option is used to change the request method?


Which curl option is used to set request headers?


Which curl option is used to view the response header?


Which request method might an attacker use to figure out which HTTP requests an HTTP server will accept?



Sessions and Cookies
Recall that HTTP servers need to be able to recognize clients from one another. They do this through sessions and cookies.
Answer the following questions about sessions and cookies:


Which response header sends a cookie to the client?
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: cart=Bob


Which request header will continue the client's session?
GET /cart HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.org
Cookie: cart=Bob



Example HTTP Requests and Responses
Look through the following example HTTP request and response and answer the following questions:
HTTP Request
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 34
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 6.0; Nexus 5 Build/MRA58N) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/80.0.3987.132 Mobile Safari/537.36

username=Barbara&password=password


What is the request method?


Which header expresses the client's preference for an encrypted response?


Does the request have a user session associated with it?


What kind of data is being sent from this request body?


HTTP Response
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 2020 17:05:43 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 01 Feb 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Encoding: gzip
Expires: Fri, 01 May 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: SessionID=5
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains
X-Content-Type: NoSniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block

[page content]


What is the response status code?


What web server is handling this HTTP response?


Does this response have a user session associated to it?


What kind of content is likely to be in the [page content] response body?


If your class covered security headers, what security request headers have been included?



Monoliths and Microservices
Answer the following questions about monoliths and microservices:


What are the individual components of microservices called?


What is a service that writes to a database and communicates to other services?


What type of underlying technology allows for microservices to become scalable and have redundancy?



Deploying and Testing a Container Set
Answer the following questions about multi-container deployment:


What tool can be used to deploy multiple containers at once?


What kind of file format is required for us to deploy a container set?



Databases


Which type of SQL query would we use to see all of the information within a table called customers?


Which type of SQL query would we use to enter new data into a table? (You don't need a full query, just the first part of the statement.)


Why would we never run DELETE FROM <table-name>; by itself?
